# What to Bring

Moving to Japan can be a scary jump into the unknown. For many people Japan is 
still a strange, exotic country where few have travelled, so how do you know 
what to expect, let alone pack? Well, lucky for you we have got some great 
information based on many years of JETs' and other foreigners' experiences.

## Clothes

Japan has four seasons that vary greatly. In Kagawa, summer is long, hot and 
humid; winter is cold; spring is temperate and cool; and autumn is warm and 
often wet. It is a good idea to keep in mind how distinct these seasons are, so 
be sure to pack for all seasons and not just the season you will arrive in. 
However, if luggage space and weight are issues, you can always find what you 
need somewhere in Kagawa, or have it shipped from somewhere else.

- **Summer** is a time for light fabrics, given the heat and high humidity. 
    Synthetics are often better as they dry more quickly than cotton. However, 
    cotton and linen are often more comfortable, so it's matter of personal 
    choice. It rains often from June until November, so come prepared (umbrella 
    and sturdy rain jacket recommended.)

- **Autumn** calls for sweaters and jeans, as it's neither too hot, nor too cold. 
    Beware that autumn is also typhoon season so it is a good idea to bring a 
    raincoat and rain pants if you have them.

- **Winter** is chilly, ranging between 0 ~ 5°C (32 ~ 40°F) from December to 
February so bring a nice jacket if you have one. Keep in mind that Japanese 
homes are not insulated, so indoor temperatures are often the same as outside 
temperatures (or, let's face it... worse somehow.) Thermal clothing is a good 
idea and can easily be bought at reasonable prices in most clothing stores 
here. As for winter recreation, Japan has some of the best winter resorts this 
side of the alps, so if you enjoy skiing or snowboarding, it may be cheaper to 
bring your own jacket, pants and gloves, rather than buying a new set when you 
arrive.

- **Spring** is similar to autumn, but a little cooler and less rainy. A light rain 
    jacket and jeans are good.

Make sure your wardrobe has proper work attire. You will need a suit for 
special school ceremonies like graduation and school pictures. You will also 
need everyday school clothes. What you wear will depend on your school. Some 
schools allow tracksuits, while other schools expect more business casual 
shirts and trousers/blouses and skirts. It is a good idea to ask your 
predecessor what they wore, and maybe dress smart for the first few weeks, 
before transitioning to a tracksuit. As a side note, ladies should try to avoid 
tops that are low-cut or expose your shoulders, and short skirts. Such garments 
will probably incite comments about how cold you must be even though it's 
sweltering outside. Whatever you wear to school, make sure you have a variety 
of clothes for a variety of occasions.

If you don't have enough space to pack enough clothes for the year, you can 
always buy clothes in Japan. There are many international brands, and it's easy 
to shop online. There are limited options for larger sizes, so it's a good idea 
to pack some extra essentials from back home, like bras and shoes.

For people who enjoy outdoor activities, it is worth bringing your own gear 
rather than trying to buy it in Japan, especially hiking boots.

## Toiletries

Japan has nearly all the toiletries you could want and possibly more but...

- It is nearly impossible to get strong antiperspirant (which you will want for 
    the humid summer).

- Some skin creams have bleaching agents in them, so we recommend you bring 
    your own, buy them online, or get someone to help you buy them.

- Toothpaste tastes different.

- Sometimes your favorite brand will have a different formula in Japan.

- It can be hard to get products for sensitive skin.

- Sunblock, sunscreen, sun cream, the White Jimmy, slip slop slap sauce etc. is 
    runny, often expensive and not sweat- or water-resistant.

Don't let this scare you though, because it is getting easier and easier to get 
anything you want on the Internet in Japan (see our shopping resource list) and 
at big department stores.

We recommend bringing enough toiletries for at least a month and then 
experimenting with new brands, or trying to buy something more familiar on the 
internet.

### Sanitary Products

It is not hard to find sanitary towels or tampons in Japan. They are very 
similar to their western counterparts. For a more in-depth guide please have a 
look at [Surviving in Japan's](http://www.survivingnjapan.com) articles on 
[tampons](http://www.survivingnjapan.com/2010/09/guide-to-tampons-in-japan.html),
and [sanitary towels](http://www.survivingnjapan.com/2010/09/guide-to-sanitary-napkins-in-japan.html).

## Medicine

You are only allowed to bring about 1 month's worth of medicine into the 
country, and certain medicines are not allowed into the country. See here for 
[the official rules](http://www.mhlw.go.jp/english/policy/health-medical/pharmaceuticals/01.html).

You can buy mild painkillers like ibuprofen and acetaminophen/paracetamol over 
the counter in similar doses to that of your home country. It is also possible 
to get a whole range of other medicines over the counter in drug stores, but 
you may find it limited compared to your home country. If you suffer from hay 
fever, it may be worth bringing a small supply of antihistamines as the 
Japanese versions are often weaker or can induce drowsiness.

## Birth-Control / Contraception

It is very easy to find many styles and sizes of condoms in Japan, but some 
people may feel safer or more comfortable using condoms from their own country. 
If this is the case it is worth bringing an extra supply, but they are 
available online or in some drug stores. It is also possible to buy latex-free 
condoms if you have allergies to latex.

For ladies, there are a few contraception options, but it is more difficult 
than in the UK or the US to get birth control other than condoms.

- First the [pill and mini-pill](http://www.survivingnjapan.com/2010/12/guide-to-birth-control-pills-in-japan.html) 
are available at women's clinics, but cost around 2000 ~ 3000円. There are 
limited choices and you will have to return every month to get your next 
prescription. Some ladies have found it easier to have a repeating prescription 
or a year's worth of pills, and have them sent every 2 months by a friend or 
online pharmacist.

- The next option is a [IUD/IUS](http://www.survivingnjapan.com/2012/02/contraception-in-japan-getting-iud.html). These can be implanted by a 
gynecologist and last for a year or so. There are a few downsides including the 
effectiveness and cost, with an IUD costing upwards of 30,000円 and an IUS 
costing around 80,000円. Some people recommend getting a coil or IUD/IUS before 
coming to Japan to avoid having to worry about birth control.

For peace of mind, it is also possible to get the 
[morning after pill](http://www.survivingnjapan.com/2012/05/how-to-find-clinic-or-hospital-that.html) 
if it is needed.

## Electronics

You can buy nearly anything you need in Japan, and for most items it is a bad 
idea to bring them since voltages vary from country to country. 

[You can get a SIM card for an unlocked phone from most phone retailers in Japan now!](/resources/new-jets/getting-a-sim-card) 

Have a look at the [main article](/resources/new-jets/electronics). 