# Takamatsu

Flying one hour south-west from Tokyo will land you here, in Takamatsu. It’s
easily accessible via the JR Takamatsu "Smile" Station, the Seto Bridge (Seto
Oohashi), Takamatsu Airport, and the expressways connecting Shikoku to the 
larger island.

Takamatsu City (高松市) is the prefectural seat of Kagawa and the largest
metropolitan area in the prefecture. It's a castle town on the sea, though its
castle is mostly ruins, with a population of about 420,000 people. To the north
is the Setouchi, the Seto Inland Sea (瀬戸内、瀬戸内海), and to the south, past
Takamatsu Airport (高松空港), is the Sanuki mountain range that separates Kagawa
and Tokushima Prefectures.

Not only is it the capital of Kagawa, but Takamatsu is also a core designated 
city for Shikoku (as of April 1999), the home of JR Shikoku, the region's center
of administration, economy, and culture, and the gateway to Shikoku through 
Kobe.

It's a small, quiet seaside city that, unline the larger cities in the country,
manages to have a character of its own. If you take some time to wander the
alleys cutting across the main shopping arcades, you'll discover hundreds of
bars, restaurants, clubs, and weird shops, and you'll see just how hipster this
city is.

Takamatsu is made up of 32 towns that were merged into one district around 1998.
These towns include Shionoe, Konan, Yashima, Yamada, Kita, Mure, Kagawa,
Inchinomiya, Bushozan, Ota, Enza, Kozai, Megijima, Ogijima, Oshoma, Aji, Higashi
and others.

## History

Takamatsu City was officially incorporated on February 15, 1890, becoming the
40th incorporated city in Japan. It was founded during the Kamakura Period
(1185 - 1333). In 1588, Ikoma Chikamasa built a castle on the Tamamo coast, and
called it Takamatsu Castle (the castle ruins are now known as Tamamo Park, and
they're across the street from JR Takamatsu and the ferry ports.) The Ikoma
family ruled the castle for 54 years, followed by a 220-year reign by the
Matsudaira clan.

After the feudal system was abolished in the Meiji Period, Takamatsu became the
official capital of Kagawa. Decades later, in 2006, Takamatsu City absorbed the
surrounding towns of Kagawa Town, Konan, Aji, Mure, Kokubunji, and Shionoe into
its borders.

## Places of Interest

- **[Ritsurin Garden](/destinations/ritsurin-garden) (栗林公園)**
  - "Chestnut Grove Garden"; an Edo-period Imperial garden in Takamatsu,
    considered one of the best in Japan.

- **Takamatsu City Art Museum　(高松市美術館)**

- **Tamamo Park and Castle Ruins　(玉藻公園)**

- **Sunport** 
  - This is the business and leisure district surrounding JR Takamatsu and the
    ferry ports, including Symbol Tower and the Red Lighthouse ("Seto Marker",
    the world's first glass lighthouse.)

- **Symbol Tower** 
  - This tower is the tallest building on Shikoku and contains shops,
    restaurants, and businesses. It's one of the best places in Takamatsu to
    find Kagawa souvenirs, and if you're ever feeling homesick or just really
    really want a burger, you can find a Freshness Burger on the 2nd floor.

- **Yashima (屋島)**

- **Shionoe (塩江)**

- **Goshikidai (五色台)**

- **Kitahama Alley (北浜町)** 
  - "North Coast Alley" is a small square of warehouses-turned-shops near the
    water, a short walk from the ferry piers and JR Station. Of special
    interest are the restaurants, such as Cantina (a Spanish restaurant good for
    large group events), Umie (a coffeeshop restaurant above an old garage that
    overlooks the Seto Sea - particularly useful for studying), and others. You
    can also find a few clothing stores among the food.

- **Takamatsu Airport (高松空港)**