# Ayagawa

Located south-southeast of Takamatsu, Ayagawa is a semi-rural town host to
roughly 25,000 people. The town offers little in the way of sightseeing, but
plenty of famous udon shops populate the landscape. The northern part of Ayagawa
(formerly known as Ryōnan) is more densely populated and contains the more urban
aspects of the town. There is an AEON shopping mall, various brick-and-mortar
stores, the city hall, and a lot of udon shops. The southern part —formerly
Ayakami — is much less populated, but holds the majority of the town's more
famous udon shops.

## Tourist Attractions

Ayagawa has one major and easily-accessible tourist attraction, the Takinomiya
Tenmangu Shrine. It is located about 10 minutes west from Takinomiya station by
foot. There is also a tourist park, the Takamatsu airport park, which requires a
vehicle to access easily. This park sits on the other side of Takamatsu
airport's runway, within Ayagawa's border.

## Transportation

There are six train stations located in Ayagawa, all of them belonging to the
private Kotoden train service. From north to south, the stations available are
Kazashigaoka, Hatada, Sue, Ayagawa (AEON mall), Takinomiya, and Hayuka. These
stations are all located in the northern part of the town, with Sue, Ayagawa,
and Takinomiya serving as the central train stops.

There is also a 100-yen shuttle bus service which has stops in various locations
around the city; however, the frequency of shuttles is limited to roughly once
every hour. As many of the stops are located in out-of-the-way locations, the
bus service is not recommended for non-locals.

## Dining

- **Yamagoe Udon**
    - The most famous udon shop in Kagawa, Yamagoe udon, is located in the
    Hayuka-kami area and requires a bicycle or vehicle to access. Locals and
    tourists frequent this shop, and lineups reaching the intersection down the
    street from the shop are not uncommon. Highly recommended and a tourist
    attraction in itself, due to the unique varieties of udon available and the
    sitting garden. Business hours are limited because of the volume of
    customers, so the shop typically closes around 1:00pm. Yamagoe opens at
    9:00am and the line isn't too bad until around 11:00am.

- **Oka udon**
    - Located close to Takamatsu airport in the mountains of Ayakami, Oka udon has
    unique soy sauce, butter, and meat combinations available in their udon.

- **Hayuka Udon**
    - Not far from Yamagoe to the north is the lesser known Hayuka Udon. Hayuka
    has some good udon and a nice selection of Tenpura, but being so close to
    Yamagoe, you'll really only go there if it's a Sunday. (Yamagoe is closed
    on Sunday)

- **Ayagawa AEON**
    - The first floor of AEON has a variety of shops. Recommended locations are
    the all-you-can-eat restaurants, which average 1200-1600 yen for two to
    three hours of dining. Of these, there is an Italian cuisine restaurant, a
    make-it-yourself okonomiyaki restaurant, and a grilled meat restaurant. AEON
    also has a conveyor belt sushi restaurant. The Ayagawa AEON is easily
    accessed via the Ayagawa Kotoden station.

- **Takoban**
    - Near Yamagoe is a small shack that sells the traditional Kagawan snack
    'Takoban'. Takoban is Kagawa's response to Okonomiyaki and Takoyaki. 
    It has the size and shape of a large biscuit, and and incredible savoury
    flavour. A must try for anyone who wants to feel pure gastronomic
    satisfaction.

## Ayagawa AEON

The AEON mall (and its surrounding outlets) in Ayagawa acts as a sort of central
hub for most rural Kagawan residents, especially those in the Ayauta district.
There are plenty of clothing stores, hair salons, and other various shops. If
you're trying to find something for your everyday life, chances are you'll find
it in AEON. While this provides an easy way to access anything you may need,
bear in mind that the mall has caused a collapse of family-owned businesses
around the area; on weekends the mall is packed to the brim, and you'll be lucky
to find a restaurant without a 30-minute wait, especially during peak hours.

Other things to note about the AEON Mall is that is has a cinema. Some movies
come in native English, with subtitled Japanese (other malls in Kagawa may not
offer this), a game arcade, and a 100-yen store housed within.