# Kotohira - 琴平

Kotohira is in the Nakatado District of Kagawa, in the southwest part of the 
prefecture. The town is served by both the Kotohira Railway, the main line
through the heart of Kagawa, and by JR Shikoku.

## Konpira-san Kotohira-gu

Kotohira is the home of Shikoku's largest shrine complex, Kotohira-gu, which
sits atop the mountain Konpira-san.

Konpira-san is one of many Konpira shrines around the country, all dedicated to
the deity of seafaring. It is formally known as Konpira Daigongen, and is the
largest of the Konpira shrine complexes. The shrines are spread along the slope
of Mount Zozu.

The shrine's ascent starts a short distance from the train stations. On the way,
you can find an udon school, Konpira udon restaurants, craft stores, souvenir
shops, candy shops, cafes, and museums. There are over 1300 steps to the deepest
shrine. From the very top you can see a brilliant view of central Kagawa
including [Marugame](/destinations/marugame), [Zentsuji](/destinations/zentsuji)
and [Ayagawa](/destinations/ayagawa)

Early autumn and late March/early April are popular times to visit, when the
autumn colors and cherry blossoms are out. Also, every year Kagawa AJET goes on
a trip to climb Konpira-san on Mountain Day (August 11th).

Though officially declared Shinto during the Meiji period, when the government
tried to draw a clear separation between Buddhism and Shinto, Konpira-san has a
mix of Buddhist and Shinto architectural elements. The deity is known as
Konpira, a seafaring spirit.

The main shrine (hongu, 本宮)is about halfway, 785 steps, and from here you can
look out over Kotohira Town. Another 600 or so steps takes you to the inner
shrine (okusha, 奥社). It's known as one of the most difficult shrine ascents in
the country, but people travel from all over to see the main shrine and inner
shrine. At an average pace, it can take half an hour to an hour to reach the
main shrine, and the same to get to the inner shrine from there.

You can also take a bus from the train stations to halfway up to the main gate
of the main shrine. The fare each way is 500 yen, buses depart each hour, and
you must call 0877-73-2221 to make reservations in advance.

## Other Places of Interest

- **Kanamaru-za**
    - The oldest surviving kabuki playhouse in the country.

- **Sake museum**

- **Sayahashi Bridge**