# Naoshima - 直島

Naoshima island gazes across the inland sea from its ivory hills of 
contemporary art installations, tasteful cafes and pretty decent elementary 
school English curricula. 

### Top 5

These five destinations are a must see on Naoshima.

![Chichu Art Museum](local:/naoshima/chichu)

**[Chichu Art Museum](http://benesse-artsite.jp/en/art/chichu.html)**

![Benesse House](local:/naoshima/benesseHouse)

**[Benesse House](http://benesse-artsite.jp/en/art/benessehouse-museum.html)**

![Liberty of Statue](local:/naoshima/libertyOfStatue)

**[Art House Project](http://benesse-artsite.jp/en/art/arthouse.html)**

![I Love 'Yu'](local:/naoshima/iLoveYu)

**[I Love 'Yu'](http://benesse-artsite.jp/en/art/naoshimasento.html)**

![Lee Urfan Museum](local:/naoshima/leeUrfanMuseum)

**[Lee Ufan Museum](http://benesse-artsite.jp/en/art/lee-ufan.html)**

### Food

If you're looking for lunch, Honmura is the best. Recommended cafes are 
Nakaoku, Naoshima Burger, and cafe Gu.

Miyanoura is a better bet if you're looking for dinner. Try out Cinnamon and 
the Shioya diner.

### James Bond Museum

There is a James Bond museum celebrating a minor novel (not written by Ian 
Fleming) which was set partly on Naoshima. Memorabilia include pages from the 
writer's journal where he writes at length about the beauty of Japanese women 
he apparently observed during a field trip, and also a 6ft tall grotesque 
plastic heart which seemingly has no relation whatsoever with anything, though 
probably has something to do with the novel.

### Yellow Pumpkin
![The Yellow Pumpkin](local:/naoshima/yellowPumpkin)

At peak times you may have to queue to get your own quirky instagram picture 
with the yellow pumpkin, but it'll definitely give your facebook profile an 
upgrade.

### Bike Rental

If you're renting a bike consider going up the middle past Naoshima dam - it's 
quite nice and there's a huge novelty rubbish bin which is also art and it's a 
bit more unique than just another picture of the pumpkin.

If you like unfriendly cats (and cafe owners) you can pay 500Y at the cat cafe 
to sit in a room with about 3 of them (cats) for half an hour.

Opposite Minamidera House Project in Honmura there's a guy who has a boat who 
sometimes takes tourists sailing. He drives around in a white k-truck so if you 
see him just ask.

### The Lantern that Doesn't Light Up

East of Tsutsuji beach is a deserted peninsular which you're not supposed to 
explore, but if you do, you end up at a beach with a stone lantern that 
apparently doesn't light up. Everyone says it's impossible to light it with a 
flame because it's haunted by ghosts.

### Wild Boar

There are some wild boar living somewhere in the rice paddies on the way to 
Tsutsuji beach. Locals have reported seeing them while out jogging.

### Scary House

There is a deserted, empty road heading to the factory from Honmura. Deserted 
except for a broken down shack about halfway along which you would assume 
no-one lives in but there is always a vicious mangy dog tied outside which 
someone feeds so someone must live there.

### Cat Bus Stop

You know the movie Totoro with the cat bus? Well, somewhere on the hill between 
Chichu museum and the beach, someone has painted a cat's face on a rusty road 
sign and now it's the 'cat bus stop'. There's also a guy who drives around in a 
big modified truck with a massive picture of Totoro painted on it, so it was 
probably him.

### Tanuki

Apparently racoon dogs used to only live on the nearby island of Tanukijima, 
but one day some swam across to the main island and now the place is teeming 
with them. You might find a few cats on Naoshima (there are loads of cats) have 
bloody injuries/missing ears etc. because at night it's all out war between the 
cats and the racoon dogs and you can hear the cats screaming and wailing having 
just been maimed. There are plenty of them out there so keep your eyes peeled.

### Industrial Waste and Gold

In the 1980's a lot of toxic waste was dumped illegally on a beach on the 
neighbouring island of Teshima (you can see the beach from Honmura) and now 
there's a big facility on Naoshima which has been processing and recycling it 
all. It's all cleaned up and pretty now and Teshima is well worth visiting. 
Next to the Lee Ufan museum there are some small Buddha statues which were made 
from the recycled waste.

Also Mitsubishi has an enormous factory on Naoshima that refines gold and 
copper. It currently (as of August 2019) holds the 
[Guinness World Record](http://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/records-1000/largest-bar-of-gold/) 
for making the largest gold bar ever.

### Musical Talent

A famous Japanese singer from the 1970's (I don't know his name but he was 
number one in the charts back then) retired to Naoshima. By Tsutsuji beach 
there is a wall with engraved lyrics of his song and a red button. Press the 
red button and the song will play through the little loudspeaker.

You can also catch the excellent Tsutsuji-daiko drumming group perform (often 
during summer festivals) or Naoshima's local rap artist, Maho.